# Implementation and Evaluation of an Incentivized Blockchain-Based Deposit-Refund System

Compared to glass, plastic or aluminum packaging represents a lightweight and durable alternative. The impact of lightweight materials on shipping costs is non-negligible and has therefore been leveraged in the beverage industry for the past 30 years. Simultaneously, the quote of reusable bottles (Mehrwegflasche) has steadily fallen (from 72\% in 1991 to 43\% in 2015), which prompted German lawmakers to introduce a system of returnable one-way bottles (Einwegflasche) in 2003 on which a deposit is paid. 

Contrary to expectations, this regulation has not stopped the influx of one-way bottles but has rather benefitted bottlers. Whenever consumers pollute by leaving behind one-way bottles, an instant 25 cent profit — assuming that no one else has returned them — is generated for the producer. This passive profit was estimated to have reached up to 192M€ in 2011 alone. 

Ideally, this pollution of the environment should be punished by splitting non-claimed deposits of one-way bottles between environmental agencies and those consumers who regularly purchase reusable bottles, which save more resources. As a further consequence, those consumers who repeatedly neglect to return their one-ways should be required to pay a higher deposit. Such a revised approach can hopefully maximize the number of returned one-way bottles and effectively steer users towards reusable ones. Otherwise, a further decline may be inevitable and is shown to have had a direct negative impact on global warming, in addition to the excess amount of waste produced hereof.

When considered on a case-by-case basis, this problem inherently deals with deposits of very low extrinsic value. Moreover, such a system has to manage account balances and track the movement of value, increasing the appeal and likelihood for external attacks. Therefore, implementing the proposed approach by utilizing smart-contracts and micro-transactions on the Blockchain may come to mind upon choosing the underlying architecture. But how does such an implementation look like; are there special considerations to be made? 
